Project Title

Team Members
Anthony Parry, Colven Benjamin, Priya Jain, Philip Lin
Project Description/Outline
A team of analysts are 

Research Questions to Answer
What is the relationship between CPI and interest rates?
- What is the relationship between CPI and unemployment rate
- What is the relationship between interest rate and yield curve

Datasets to be Used
Fred
CPI data by country over the last 12 months - 18 months
Yield Curve
Unemployment Rate

US, ECB--Germany (seperately), China, India
Venezuela 

inflation chart

Rough Breakdown of Tasks:
Presentation
Proposal
Cleaned out Read Me

Objectives
Data Sources
Analysis
Future Considerations
Conclusions

download CSVs and look at column
be specific about plots and questions
is scatter plot cpi vs inflation where each dot is a country
be as specific as possible
want one table with country year cpi and inflation
recommend only 1 or 2 merges of data
simplify a bit, try to be a little less ambitious

International Variation

Project Title: A Whirlwind Year, Inflation Trends and Impacts

Team Members: Anthony Parry, Colven Benjamin, Priya Jain, Philip Lin

Project Description:
We are doing a 4-part analysis of inflation:
1.	Top 5 lowest and bottom 5 highest inflation countries based on CPI data points for Feb 2023 and their GDPs; Visual: table only; Files: BLS API, World Bank, IMF
2.	Determine trend of interest rates for top 20 lowest inflation countries in relation to CPI over the last year (12 months); Visual: scatter plot with regression line; Files: BLS/World Bank/IMF CSV for top 20 lowest inflation countries, FRED API/IMF for interest rate data points
3.	Determine trend of unemployment rates for the US in relation to CPI over the last year (12 months); Visual: line plot; Files: BLS API
4.	Predictive model that can predict inflation levels (?)

Questions to answer:
Where is inflation the highest and lowest? What is the GDP of these countries? What is the relationship of inflation and GDP?
How does CPI impact interest rates? And why?
What is the relationship between CPI  and unemployment rates? What are some inferences we can draw from this data?
Can inflation be predicted?

Data Sets to be Used:
BLS or IMF API (Inflation/CPI, Unemployment)
BLS or IMF CSV (Top 20 Lowest Inflation Countries Only)
FRED or IMF API (Interest Rates)
World Bank (GDP by Country)

US Only Variation

Project Title: A Whirlwind Year, Inflation Trends and Impacts

Team Members: Anthony Parry, Colven Benjamin, Priya Jain, Philip Lin

Project Description:

We are doing a 4-part analysis of inflation:
1.	Inflation and unemployment rates over the last 20 years in the US based on CPI and BLS data points; Visual: line plot; Files: BLS API

2.	Interest rate and GDP over the last 20 years in the US based; Visual: line plot; Files: Fred API

(Merge points 1 and 2 into 1 table and plot)

3.	Determine trend of interest rates in the US in relation to CPI/inflation over the last two years (24 months); Visual: scatter plot with regression line (as inflation increases, how are interest rates impacted?); Files: BLS CSV for data for last 24 months, FRED API for interest rate data points

4.	Determine trend of unemployment rates for the US in relation to CPI/inflation over the last year (24 months); Visual: scatter plot with regression line (as inflation increases, how are unemployment rate impacted?); Files: BLS CSV for data for last 24 months, BLS API for interest rate data points

5.	Predictive model that can predict inflation levels (Extra Credit?)

Questions to answer:

What is the relationship between inflation, unemployment, interest and GDP rates in the US over the last 20 years? What inferences can we draw keeping in mind economic cycles?
How does CPI impact interest rates? And why?

What is the relationship between CPI and unemployment rates? What are some inferences we can draw from this data?

Can inflation be predicted?

Data Sets to be Used:
BLS API (Inflation/CPI, Unemployment)
BLS CSV (Data for last 24 months)
FRED API (Interest Rates, GDP)


